We all know that what we eat affects our health. Eating foods with all the essential nutrients prevents nutritional deficiencies. In the United States, few people suffer nutritional deficiencies, overconsumption and lifestyle choices which make them suffer from chronic diseases. This can be prevented by balanced and healthy diet, which include 7 rules: 

1 Adequacy - planning your meal that will help you in attaining enough nutrients that your body needed.  for example, a meal of soda pop, two hard-shell beef tacos, and cinnamon breadsticks provides foods from different food groups but it is high in sugar and fat and low in many vitamins and minerals. normal growth and development of children, health promotion for people of all ages, and reduction of risk for a number of chronic diseases 

2 Balance - Consume a wide variety of foods in the right proportions and right amount of food and drink to achieve and maintain a healthy body weight. Most people in the UK eat and drink too many calories, too much saturated fat, sugar and salt, and not enough fruit, vegetables, oily fish or fibre and this can lead to diabetes and obesity

3 Variety - Consume different foods in the diet, even in one food group. Choosing a variety of protein sources gives you a different balance of fats and other nutrients. Variety can add interest and excitement to your meals while preventing boredom with your diet.  Studies have shown that people who have varied diets are more likely to meet their overall nutrient needs

4 Moderation - Too much or too little of anything can cause harm. For example, the body needs zinc for hundreds of chemical reactions, including those that support normal growth, development, and immune function. Too much zinc, however, can cause defi ciency of copper, another essential mineral, which can lead to impaired immune function.

5 Calorie control -  If you eat the same amount of calories that you use each day, your weight will stay the same. If you eat more than you use, you will gain weight, and if you eat less than you use, you will lose weight. Consequently, this prevents overeating or extra calories consumption. 

6 Nutritional density: 
Provides a clue to how “healthy” a food is. Foods that are low in nutrient density supply calories but relatively small amounts of vitamins and minerals. For example, Depending on how potato is cooked and what is added to it before we eat it, the nutrient density of that potato changes: the most nutrient-dense is plain baked potato; the least nutrient-dense version of this potato is french fries
